We have a profoundly
important announcement to make which is
uh the most uh epic chip building
exercised in history by far. This is
really going to take things to the next
level. So yeah, a level probably people
aren't even contemplating right now.
This is not in the I would call this an
sort of an out of context problem. Uh
it's not in their context. So, we're
going to adjust the context by a few
orders of magnitude here. It's it's a
joint effort. I'm pressing the button,
but the button's not working. We aspire
to be a galactic organ galactic
civilization.
So I think the the future that everyone
well most people I think would agree is
the most exciting is one where we are
out there among the stars
where we are not forever confined to one
planet that we become a multilanet
species like the best science science
fiction that you've ever read you know
Star Trek or Ian Banks or Azimov or
Heinland
And we want to make that real. Yeah. Not
just fiction. Turn science fiction to
science fact. Uh that's the glorious
exciting future that uh that I certainly
look forward to. Um and uh it's worth
considering sort of like how would you
rate civilizations?
You know there's so there was a
physicist I think it was Russian uh in
the '60s Kartev. He he thought about at
a high level, how would you consider any
given civilization? And he said, "Well,
if you're type one, you're using uh most
of the energy of your planet."
And uh we actually still have quite a
ways to go to be properly a type one.
We're still using a tiny fraction of the
sun's energy that reaches our planet. Um
see, yeah, there we go. Um
but the earth only receives about half a
billionth of the sun's energy. So the
sun is uh truly enormous. The the sun is
uh 99.8% of all mass in the solar
system. So sometimes people will ask me
like what about you know other power
sources of power on earth like what
about fusion on earth? Well, uh that is
unfortunately very small uh because the
sun is 99.8%
of mass in the solar system and Jupiter
is about.1% and earth is in the
miscellaneous category. We are uh I
think it's Carl Sean I think might have
said earth is a is like a tiny dust moat
in a vast darkness
very very small the sun is enormous.
So the way to actually scale
civilization is to scale power in space.
this is necessarily true uh because
the the we we we actually capture such a
tiny amount of the sun's energy on Earth
because we're just this tiny dust moat.
The another way to think of it is
roughly like electricity production on
Earth
of all of civilization is only about a
trillionth of the sun's energy.
Which means if you increase
civilizational power output by a
million,
you would still only be a millionth of
the sun's energy. I mean, it's it's it's
all inspiring to consider that. Um,
just how tiny we are in the grand scheme
of things. Um and yeah, we often get
sort of caught up in the sort of these
sort of squables on earth that are
really very sort of minor things in the
when you consider the the grandness of
the universe.
Um and so I think it's it is important
actually to consider the grandness of
the universe and what we can do that
that is much greater than what we've
done before. um as opposed to worry
about sort of small squables on Earth
type of thing. Um
not much point in that. Um yeah, we want
to be a civilization that expands to the
galaxy with with spaceships that anyone
can go anywhere they want. That would be
epic. and have a city on the moon,
cities on Mars, populate the solar
system, and send spaceships to other
star systems. That sounds like the best
possible future. So to do that, we need
that to harness the power of the sun.
And uh so a terrafab while it is
enormous a terowatt of compute per year
is is enormous by our sort of
civilizational standards um it is still
uh just one step along the way of being
even a kadeshv you're still have a long
way to go to even be a cautev 2 level
civilization and you're not even
registering as a cadv 3. So it's a very
big thing by current human standards but
but still small in the grand scheme.
Um and uh but but very difficult for
humans. So to to accomplish this very
difficult goal really requires a
combination of efforts of SpaceX, XAI
and Tesla working together to create
this epic uh terapout project. So, and
you know, Tesla and XAI and SpaceX have
all done amazing things, uh, that people
did not think would be done before. Uh,
so there's the the Giga Giga Texas fab
here. Uh, there's, you know, the the the
Optimus robot that's being built.
There's a a global supercharging
network. Um, there's really quite a lot.
Um, and it wasn't that long ago when
people thought electric cars wouldn't
wouldn't amount to anything. Um, and
there were there were basically no
electric cars for sale when uh when
Tesla started. Um, and people said it
was impossible. And now Tesla's making 2
million electric cars a year. Yeah. And
then XAI, although it's a new company
now part of SpaceX, uh, has also built
the first gigawatt scale compute
cluster, which uh, in record time. Uh,
Jensen Hong from Nvidia said he'd never
seen anything built so fast in his life
before. So, uh, a great compliment from
from Nvidia. And then SpaceX, uh, well,
I guess you can read it for yourself. I
You already know. I mean, the reusable
rockets, uh, people said that reusable
rockets weren't possible, and even if
you did do them, they wouldn't be
economically feasible. So, we did them,
and then we made them economically
feasible. Um, and now we've landed over
500 times.
Uh and then we did the the Falcon Heavy,
now we're doing Starship. And Starship
is a is a critical piece of the puzzle
because in order to scale uh compute and
scale power, you have to go to space,
which means that you need massive
payload to space. Um and Starship will
enable that. So this gives you sort of
just a sense of scale. We've got um
Optimus there. Optimus for scale. Um and
uh Optimus is about 5'11. So it gives
you a sense of the size of the Sasha V3
rocket. Uh the Sasha V4 will be much
longer. Actually the Sasha V4 will make
uh Sasha V3 look kind of short. Um so
we'll we'll expand with Starship V3 to
200 tons of payload to orbit from 100
tons with start with V3. And then you
can see that just the that's just a
rough approximation of the the AI the
mini version of the AISAT. So that's
roughly 100 kilowatts.
It's showing the uh solar panels and the
radiator to scale. So u for some reason
there's been a bizarre debate about
radiators in space. Uh it's safe to say
SpaceX knows how to do heat rejection in
space with 10,000 satellites in orbit.
might know a thing or two. Um, so you
can see the radiator is actually quite
small relative to the solar the solar
panels.
Um, and we call it the minissad since
that's uh just 100 kow. We expect future
satellites to probably go to the
megawatt range. So in order to get to
the terowatt uh of compute per year, uh
you need about 10 million tons to orbit
per year and at 100 kows per ton. So,
but we're confident this is feasible.
Like no new physics or impossible things
are required to to get there. So, I'm
confident actually that SpaceX will get
to uh 10 million tons to orbit per year.
Um, and then we we're building up to a
terowatt of solar. So, that solves the
will will solve the solar problem, the
power generation. So, then the key
missing ingredient is therefore a
terowatt of compute.
So this announcement is about solving
the key missing ingredient to give you a
sense of um what we're talking about. Uh
the current output of AI compute uh is
roughly 20 gawatt per year. This chart
explains why we need to build the Terra
app because all of the rest of the
output from Earth is about 2% of what we
need.
So if you add up all the fabs on earth
combined,
they're only about 2% of what we need
for the for the terowatt project or
terrafab project.
So uh you know we we we certainly uh
want our existing supply chain to be
clear we're uh very grateful to our
existing supply chain uh to Samsung,
TSMC, Micron and and and others. uh and
we would like them to expand as quickly
as they can. Um and we will buy all of
their chips.
Uh I have said these exact words to
them. Um and uh but there's there's a
maximum rate at which they're
comfortable uh expanding, but that rate
is u much less than we would like. And
so we we either build the terapab or we
don't have the chips.
And uh we need the chips. So we're going
to build teraf and we're starting off
with an advanced technology fab here in
Austin. Um and uh and I I I believe
Governor Abbott is in the audience. I'd
like to thank Governor Abbott and the
state of Texas for the support. So in
the advanced technology fab uh we we
will have all of the equipment necessary
to make a chip of any kind logical
memory and we will also have all of the
uh equipment necessary to make the
lithography masks. So in a single
building we can create a lithography
mask uh make the chip
uh test the chip make another mask and
and and have an an incredibly fast
recursive loop for improving the chip
design.
Uh to the best of my knowledge, this
doesn't exist anywhere in the world
where you've got everything necessary to
build logic, memory, and do packaging
and test it and then do the masks,
improve the masks, and and just keep
looping it.
So, and we're not just going to do
conventional compute in this. I think
there's some very interesting uh new
physics uh that is potentially that that
actually I'm confident will work. It's
just a question of when. Um, so this is
going to really going to push the limit
of physics in in compute and we're going
to try a bunch of wild and crazy things
which you can do if you've got that fast
iteration loop. Um, that I can't
emphasize enough the importance of being
able to make a chip, test it, and and
then make and then change the design, do
another one, and have that in a single
building. the I I think that our
recursive improvement with that
situation
is probably an order of magnitude better
than anything else in the world. So,
broadly speaking, we expect to make uh
two two kinds of chips. One will be
optimized for uh edge inference. So
that'll be used primarily in Optimus and
in the cars but but especially in
Optimus because I expect uh the robots
uh humanoid robots to be made uh 10 to
100 times more than the volume of cars.
So you know if if vehicle production
vehicle production on Earth is about 100
million vehicles a year and I expect
humanoid robot production to be
somewhere between a billion and 10
billion units a year. So it's a lot.
Um
so yeah, Tesla is going to make a very
significant percentage of those is our
goal. Um and then we need uh a high
power chip that is designed for space.
uh that takes into account uh the more
difficult environment in space where
you've got uh high power you've got high
energy ions, photons, you got electron
buildup. It's it's a hostile environment
in space. So you want to design the chip
uh you want to optimize it for space and
um and you also want to generally run it
a little hotter than you would normally
run a chip uh on Earth to minimize the
radiator mass. So there just a bunch of
constraints that would you you're
designed something differently in space
uh than you would on on the ground and
um the for the space compute my guess is
that is u the vast majority of the
compute because you you're power
constrained on earth that's why I think
it's probably
100 to 200 gaw a year of [snorts]
terrestrial chips um hand probably on
the order of a terowatt of ships in
space
um just because of power constraints on
the ground is is probably that's
probably how it ends up. Space has this
advantage that it's always sunny. Um
it's very nice. Uh so uh I I actually
think that the cost of AI in deploying
AI in space will drop below the cost of
terrestrial AI much sooner than most
people expect. I think it may be only 2
or 3 years before it is actually lower
cost to send AI chips to space than it
is on the ground because in in space you
don't need uh much in the way of
batteries because of it's always sunny.
Um, and the solar power you get you're
going to get at least five or more times
the solar power you get in space on
versus the ground because you don't have
atmospheric attenuation or a dayight
cycle or seasonality.
Um, and you're always uh normal to the
sun. So, you're really maximizing the
the the solar power at that point. And
this the uh space solar actually costs
less than terrestrial solar because you
don't need heavy glass or framing to
protect it from extreme weather events.
Um so as soon as the cost to orbit drops
to a low number it immediately makes
extremely compelling sense to put AI in
space
is it becomes a no-brainer basically.
Um, moreover, as you go to to space, you
get increased economies of scale and
things get easier over time. Whereas, as
you try to put more and more power on
the ground, you run out of space and and
you you you start using up the the the
easy spots and then you get next level
numbi. Uh, nobody wants the thing in
their backyard.
So then so actually increasing power on
earth has becomes harder over time and
more expensive over time but in space it
becomes actually cheaper and easier over
time. This is these are very important
points. What what you just thought there
was because of course you're asking
what's on your mind is well what do you
do after a terapab? Um
don't think small.
Uh well yeah good point. Uh so we um you
know how do you get to a ketawatt
uh is is the obvious next question
and um you get there by having um an
electromagnetic mass driver on the moon
with
robots with optimi and obviously lots of
humans and
uh with that you can send
uh a pedawatt you can create a pedawatt
of compute and send that to deep space
because on the moon moon has no
atmosphere and has 16 earth's gravity.
So you can you you don't need rockets on
the moon. You can literally accelerate
it uh
to escape velocity from the surface
and uh that dramatically drops the cost
once again of
harnessing power and uh and enables you
to go a thousand times bigger than a
terowatt. So,
for sure the future, I want to see I I
want us to live long enough to see the
the mass driver on the moon cuz that's
going to be incredibly epic. That should
hopefully get us to a millionth of the
sun's energy at least. Humbling to think
about that.
Um, but a millionth of the sun's energy
would be a million times bigger than
Earth's economy. So, it's good from that
perspective. Um
and then yeah you expand beyond that to
the planets to the other stars and uh
create the most exciting possible future
than that I can imagine. This looks a
bit like the opening an idiocracy with
the mic judge unlocking an age of
amazing abundance.
Um so um yeah obviously the elements of
that are sustainable energy
uh space travel and a AI and robotics
that bring amazing abundance to
everyone. Um and uh
it's it's really the it's really the
only path to amazing abundance is AI and
AI and robotics. Um, which is not to say
it can't go wrong. Hopefully, you know,
but I think it'll probably go right and
it'll be a future that you that you
love. Um, and um, it's the best future I
can think of at least.
So, and then we go beyond the moon,
beyond Mars, and we sail through the
rings of Saturn. Um, now, wouldn't it be
amazing if you could buy a trip to
Saturn? Well, frankly, if you just have
a trip to Saturn, I think you things
will just be free in the future. It
sounds nuts, but
you know, if you've got an AI robotics
economy that is anywhere close to a
million times the size of the current
Earth economy, literally any need you
possibly want can be met. If you could
think of it, you can have it. So, I
think Ian Banks in his culture books has
it pretty much right where there there
actually isn't money in the future and
there's abundance for for everyone. If
you can think of it, you can have it.
That's it.
Um, which means anyone could have a trip
to Saturn. It won't be, you know, just a
few people. If you want it, you can have
it. Yeah. [applause]
Join join us on this journey. um and uh
help us design incredible chips and make
incredible ships and uh build a terowatt
of ships, a terowatt of solar and uh
10 million tons to orbit per year. Thank
you.